---
title: "Ros Note"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Tech
tags:
  - ros
classes: wide
---
- Robot Operating System (ROS)
  - ROS Master: `roscore `
  - ROS nodes, a single program, one note does one job. They are organized in packages
    - `rosrun package_name node_name`
    - `rsonode list`
    - `rosnode info node_name`
  - Topics: nodes can publish or subcribe to a topic, typically, one publisher and n subscribers. Topic is a name for a stream of messages.
    - `rostopic list`
    - `rostopic echo /topic`: subscribe and print the contents of a topic.
    - `rostopic info /topic`
  - Messages: data structure defining the type of a topic. Comprised of a nested structure of integers, floats etc. and arrays of objects.
    - `rostopic type /topic`
    - `rostopic pub /topic type data`: publish a message to a topic.
    - `.msg` file
  - Nodelets: conceptually the same as nodes, to avoid data overhead when copying data. Always use nodes first.
  - launch: is a tool for launching multiple nodes. Written in XML as `.launch` files.
    - `roslaunch package_name file_name.launch`
    - Look into a launch file structure:
      - node
      - name (free to choose)
      - pkg: package containing the node
      - type: type of the node, there must be a corresponding executable with te same name!
      - output: specifies where to output log messages(screen: console, log:log file)
    - Can create reusable launch files with `<arg>` tag, which works like a parameter;  
      - The we can use arguments in launch file with `$(arg arg_name)`
      - `$(find gazebo_ros)/launch/test.launch` used in launch file to find the package.
      - when launching, can set arguments `roslaunch launch_file.launch arg_name:=value`

- Workspace
  - default workspace loaded: `source /opt/ros/melodic/setup.bash` --> global environments.
  - Overlay your catkin workspace with for example, `catkin_ws` and `source devel/setup.bash`
  - `catkin build pacakge_name`: generate executables, libraries and interfaces.
  - `catkin config`: to see the configs.
  - `catkin build --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release`

- Gezebo simulator: simulate robot dynamics, sensor behaviors including noise. Has extension, plugins with ROS.
  - `rosrun gazebo_ros gezebo`






